.TH COOLPING 1 "October 2025" "CoolPing 2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
coolping \- a stylish, user-friendly alternative to the classic ping command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B coolping
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIhost\fR
.br
.B coolping
\fB--speedtest\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B coolping
\fB--help\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
CoolPing provides emoji-based feedback, colorized output, continuous monitoring, speed testing, and convenient logging, making network diagnostics more fun and informative.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --count N
Number of packets to send (default: 4)
.TP
.B --continuous, -c
Run indefinitely with live updating statistics dashboard. Shows real-time metrics including packet loss, latency statistics (min/max/avg/recent), connection quality rating, and uptime. Press Ctrl+C to stop.
.TP
.B --speedtest, -s
Run download and upload speed test. Downloads a 10MB test file and uploads a 2MB test file to measure your internet connection speed. Results show speed in Mbps and MB/s with quality ratings. No host is required when using this option.
.TP
.B --log
Enable logging to ~/coolping.log
.TP
.B --no-emoji
Disable emojis for compatibility with legacy terminals
.TP
.B --color never
Disable colored output
.TP
.B --verbose, -v
Show verbose output including raw ping details
.TP
.B --help, -h
Show help message
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B coolping google.com
Basic ping with 4 packets
.TP
.B coolping --count 10 google.com
Ping with 10 packets
.TP
.B coolping --continuous google.com
Monitor continuously with live stats dashboard
.TP
.B coolping --speedtest
Run download and upload speed test (no host required)
.TP
.B coolping --continuous --log google.com
Continuous monitoring with logging enabled
.SH FEATURES
.TP
.B Continuous Monitoring
Real-time dashboard showing total pings, success/failure counts, packet loss percentage with visual graph, latency statistics (current, average, recent average, min, max), connection quality rating (1-5 stars), and uptime counter.
.TP
.B Speed Test
Measures download speed using 10MB test file and upload speed using 2MB test file. Results include speed in Mbps and MB/s, quality indicators (emojis), and star ratings based on performance.
.TP
.B Quality Ratings
Download: Excellent (>100 Mbps), Good (50-100 Mbps), Fair (10-50 Mbps), Slow (<10 Mbps)
Upload: Excellent (>50 Mbps), Good (20-50 Mbps), Fair (5-20 Mbps), Slow (<5 Mbps)
.SH AUTHOR
Edris Ranjbar
.SH SEE ALSO
ping(8), traceroute(8), mtr(8) 